so time travel is real actually
you're traveling through time right now
with every second of this video
you move one second into the future
but there's one person on earth who has
managed to time travel a little further
into the future
two hundredths of a second and that's
not the limit
meet sergey krikalov he's an astronaut
who spent
803 days 9 hours and 39 minutes
on the international space station
that's the key to his time travel
the point is that for two objects one
standing still
and the other moving time flow is
different
that is if we take our planet as one
object
and the iss is the other time on earth
and on the iss will go differently
but this is not enough to significantly
affect time
we need to look at gravity the larger
the object
the stronger its gravitational force for
example
on the moon you can jump higher and lift
heavier objects than on earth
because the moon is light but on jupiter
you can barely stand on your feet
because it's heavy
and its gravity is many times stronger
gravity bends space-time itself
imagine a trampoline or a stretch cheat
as long as there's nothing on it
space-time is even
and time is the same at all points but
put a heavy object there
and you'll see a pit forming in it now
imagine putting a heavy object like the
planet earth
in the center of the sheet it weighs 6
tons
plus another 21 zeros it would bend our
sheets so much
that time would go differently in the
center than in a place where space time
is flat
and the heavier the object the greater
the warp
and the slower time will go there for
example
near the sun time goes even slower than
on our planet
because it's more than 300 thousand
times heavier
or take a black hole even a small one
weighs
tens or hundreds of times more than the
sun
and super massive ones are millions and
billions of times heavier
they will bend space time so much that
time
near them practically stops so
our hero sergey krikalov used this very
method of time travel
he just wasn't at the very depth of this
time space vortex
but on the iss it's at a point in space
time
where the curvature of the sheet isn't
that strong
and time went a little faster for him
than it does here
just a little bit and if you spend
enough time there
gradually you start to overtake the
people here on earth in time
sergei could have gone much farther in
time but another law of physics
prevented him from doing so
it's all about the unity of space and
time
if you're standing you're only moving in
but if you run forward you move both in
time and space
the faster you run through space the
slower you move in time
the international space station travels
around our planet
at 4.7 miles per second this speed
slowed down
sergey's movement through time so in
more than two years on the iss
he only traveled in time by two
hundredths of a second
so here's a way that you can time travel
seat your friend at a table and give
them one watch
put the other one on your arm and start
running around the table
if you run fast and long enough you'll
notice how the time on your
watch and your friends is different
voila you have traveled through time
but there are other ways to get to the
future for the first way
you need to get to a black hole the
closest one is just
over 1 000 light years away from our
solar system
you jump into your faster than light
spaceship and arrive there
you need to fly as close as possible to
its center
to the very edge of the event horizon
space time is so warped here
that one second can be equal to weeks
or even months on earth so just wait
here for a few minutes
now turn the hyperdrives back on and fly
away
of course you have to be careful here
black holes are so heavy
that nothing can escape their
gravitational force
even light which is the fastest thing in
the universe
can't escape a black hole's embrace but
that's no problem for you
and you're already on your home planet
wow
it's been decades on earth while you've
been away
there are flying cars robots and
holograms
everywhere another option is traveling
at the speed of light you and your
friend are standing on the starting line
at the stadium and each of you has a
stopwatch
press start you run at the speed of
light around the earth a few times
and finish stop the clock the time with
which you ran your sprint
is less than that of your friend who is
standing still
but there's a so-called twin paradox
that scientists are still racking their
brains over
it's all about what to take as a
reference point
if the center of the coordinate system
is a person standing still
and the other is running at the speed of
light then
the runner's clock will lag after the
run
because they were moving not only in
time but
also in space remember but if you take
the runner as the reference point
it was the static person who was in
motion relative to them
and then the static person's clock would
have to be behind
so as a result of the experiment both
guys's clocks
the runner and the static guy would show
the same time
this is the twin paradox another way to
cheat the laws of physics
and stop the flow of time is to get into
the plank position
then time just stops for you okay
just kidding assuming that traveling
back in time
is possible there's a whole bunch of
problems and paradoxes
for example at 12 pm you're engaged in
building a time machine
at 12 30 you finish building it and then
at 1 pm you enter it for one purpose
to prevent you from building the time
machine yourself
then you go back in time at 12 20 when
the time machine is almost finished
and break one of its details so that it
can't be built to start with
but if your younger version couldn't
build a time machine
then there's no way that you could get
to the past either
right or what if you did build a time
machine
and went back in time to your father
when he was on a date with your mom
you ruined their date and they break up
in this case
your birth would have been impossible
but if you hadn't been born
you would never have built a time
machine and gone back in time to ruin
your daddy's date
and then nothing would have interfered
with your birth
wow things are getting a little too
complicated
okay there are simpler ways to travel
through time
for example biological ones i'm talking
about freezing
if you freeze your body you will move
through time with the rest of the world
but you'll be asleep the whole time and
when you wake up
you'll be in the future by the way
animals that hibernate in winter like
bears are
time travelers they simply skip the
hungry winter seasons
but there's one problem with that when
we freeze
the water in our cells and tissues turns
to ice
and as a consequence they feel
dehydrated
like in a desert this can be avoided by
using protective chemicals
but the hardest part is the awakening
our scientists
can't safely unfreeze a living organism
so
for now freezing your body is a one-way
ticket
but we have hope that scientists of the
future
will find a way to avoid damaging cells
and tissues
then they'll open refrigerators with
people and wake up a whole bunch of time
travelers
and that's a pretty expensive adventure
freezing an entire body
can cost two hundred thousand dollars or
more
but many people believe that time travel
is already real
and some time travelers have been caught
in photographs or
camera footage for example this photo
from 1941
there are men in suits and women in
elegant hats
and among them this guy in futuristic
glasses and hoodie
or this video where you can see a woman
in the background
talking on her cell phone wow that was
about a century ago
and back then no one could imagine what
a cell phone was
well these facts can be easily explained
the man in the photo is wearing glasses
that were made back in 1920
and the t-shirt and hoodie also already
existed at that time
and the woman talking on the cell phone
is actually holding an
acoustic on in her hand it's kind of a
hearing aid
one of the first of its kind so we can
say one thing for sure
time travel remains just a dream for all
people
except sergey krikalov who was able to
trick the laws of physics
and be two hundredths of a second ahead
of all the people on earth